Basic steps to developing software-

Analysis: identify the requirement of the client 
Design- architect the entire system
Development-develop components, function and features
Testing-ensure that the code developed produces correct results.
Maintenance-develop a maintenance agreement and plan 

Popular development Methodologies-
The agile method includes framework such as scrum crystal extereme programming and feature driven development

DeVops centers on organizational change that enhances collaboration between teams

THE Waterfall method is a stepped linear model made up of sequential phases where each phase is a complete part of the whole 


SDLC MODELS-
Waterfall :linear and sequential
iterative: somewhat cyclical
Spiral: top down and bottom up 
V-Shaped- early testing.
Agile -most popular and includes several iterations

Waterfall model-
for any phase in the development process to begin the previous must be completed first except the first phase.

Iterative Model--
with  this model it is possible to devlop using repeated cycles and shorter durations . Advantages including learning through development earlier parts of versions of the system.

Spiral Model-
This model attempts to join features of the incremental and waterfall models. It is combination of top down and bottom up designs.

V-shaped-
This model takes the waterfall model to the next level . there is a heavy focus on the testing in the model which gives rise to the V SHAPE At the end of the project, the product is well tested.

Agile Methods refine the process into small incremental builds or iterations with a focus on customer satisfaction.
-------------------------------------------------------

waterfall model---- Requirement gathering and analysis>system design>implementation>testing>system deployment> maintenance

Advantages--
simple and easy to understand
management is also simple each phase is well defined and deliverable can be verified

steps are well defined and documented there is no confusion between phases

when to use the waterfall method model---
it is possible to use the waterfall model in any of these situations
requirement are clear not likely to change
The product itself is well understood 
Technology being used is familiar to  the team 
moving an existing product to anew OS

Incremental Model-- Requirements>Analysis>Design>Coding>Sostware product increment1 and then iteration again start.

Advantages and disadvantages of the iterative model ----
the first deliverable is produced quickly 
end users can analyE the product at an earlier stage than the waterfall model
some cost savings
 since each increment produces some thing that can be seen customes are more satisfied that progress is being made.
customers feedback can be accounted for as each  increment is developed.

Disadvantages-
Each  increment must ne designed and planned 
due to the nature of the increments not all facts may be siclosed up front 
as each stage is planned overlapping may not be allowed 
problems appearing downstream  may be harder to fix than those that appear early.

when can we  use this model 
It is possible to use the iterative incremental model in any  of these use.

Spiral model--
Mitigating risk is at the heart of this model. tHIS MODEL IS SAN EXTENSION OF the waterfall model where risk is analyzed and a prototype is acheib=ved earlier than in traditional waterfall model.

Spiral model phases- planning
                    -risk	
                    -Evaluation
                    -Engineering
Advantages-
Spiral Models are excellent for large complex projects.
This model is known for its risk mitigation ]
customers can watch in real time as their product is developed 
This model is not as rigid as the waterfall model requirement can be changed and accommodated.

Disadvantages-
This model can be costly if not planned properly
with so much emphasis on risk there may be additional costs as experts may be needed
in order to  mitigate cost overruns the model must follow strict guidelines 
There is the possibility of over documenting the process
Not suitable for smaller projects due to the upfronts costs.















