Diffrences between Graph QL and Rest Api
 
Rest api 
Rest is a set of rules that defines structured data exchange between  a client and a server.
Rest is good for simple data sources where resources are well defined.

Rest is good for simple data sources where resources are well defined.

Rest has multiple endpoints in the URLs to define resources.

Rest returns data in a fixed structure define by the server.

Rest data is weakly typed so the client must decided how to interpret the formatted data when it is returned.

with Rest the client must cheak if the retured data is valid.

GraphQL

GraphQL is a query language, architecture style and set of tools to create and manupulateAPIs.

GraphQL is  good for large complex and interrelated data sources.

GraphQL has a single URL endpoint.

GraphQL returns data ina flexible structure defined by the client.

GraphQL data is strongly typed  so the client receives data in predetermined and manually understood formats.

With GraphQL, invalid requests are typically rejected by schema structure. This results in an autogenerated error message.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

API facilitate an api request to an endpoint or multiple endpoint on a server.

The server gives a response that contains data, data status, or error codes

Rest and GraphQL allow you to create, modify, , update, delete data on a separate application, service,or module via API . Api developed with REST are known as RESTFUL API. 


Architecture-----
Both REST AND GRAPHQL implement several common api structural principles. here are principles they share.
Both are stateless, so the server does not save response history between requests.

Both use a client server modal so requests from a single client result in replies from a single server.

Both are HTTP based as HTTP is the underlying communication protocol.

Similarly REST AND GRAPHQL both support caching . so client and servers can cache frequently accesed data to increase speed of communication.

Both Graphql and restapi WORK with any database structure and any programming language both client and server side This makes them higly interoperable with any application.

Fixed structure data exchange.
The Rest API requires client requests to follow a fixed structure to receive a resource.This rigid structure is easy to use, but it is not always the most efficient means to exchange exactly the data needed.

Over fetching and underfetching

Rest API always return a whole dataset. for example from a person object in the REST API you would receive the person name , date of birth,address, and phone number. you would get all of this dat even if you only needed a phone number.

Similarly
if you wanted to know a person phone number and last purchases you would need multiple REST API requests.The URL/ person would return the phone number and URL/purchases WOULD RETURN purchases history.

Social MEDIA DEVELOPERS HAD TO WRITE A LOT OF CODE  JUST TO PROCESS api REQUESTS WHICH AFFECTED PERFORMANCE AND USER EXPERIENCE.

GraphQL emerged AS a query based solution. Queries can return the exact data in only one API request and response exchange.


Key diffrences ;GraphQL vs REST

A Rest API  is an architectural concept for application communication. On the other hand GraphQL is a specification , an API query language and set of tools, GraphQL operates over a single using HTTP.

REST development has been more focused on making new API meanwhile GraphQL focus has been on API performance and flexlibility.

Client side request








3 key features  of Apache kafka---
1 Publish & subscribe to streams of events 
2 Store events for as long as you want 
3 Process events when they arrive or later 

Distributed highly scalable elastic fault tolerant secure 

Event(messages)- message== Record == Event== Data


